Docsp 13855 usage example find a doc (#2)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/usage-examples/findOne.txt

===============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can retrieve a single document from your collection with the
``Collection.FindOne()`` method. 

..
   method

The ``FindOne()`` method takes a filter document. Calling the ``FindOne()``
method retrieves a document from your MongoDB instance that matches your
filter document. If you pass the ``FindOne()`` method an empty filter document,
MongoDB considers your entire collection when retrieving your document. For more
information on documents in the MongoDB Go driver, see our
:doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

You must pass the ``FindOne()`` method a ``context.Context`` interface type
value. For more information on the ``context.Context`` interface and the

> ``context`` package, see our :doc:`guide on context </fundamentals/context>`.

Reviewer: I am not entirely sure, but "contexts" sounds more natural, since it's referring to the guide, and not quoting the title of the page.

```suggestion
``context`` package, see our :doc:`guide on contexts </fundamentals/context>`.
```

Author: Thanks for the note. I can't say I have a sense of which sounds more natural, but I trust your judgment. I haven't heard very many discussions of the `context` package so I can't say I have a great sense of how it is generally discussed in conversation. I will keep this edit in mind, and hopefully I will build up some intuition around when "context" vs "contexts" is more appropriate.

  ``FindOne()`` method, the error propagates to the ``Decode()`` method and
  the ``Decode()`` method returns the error. 

Example
-------

The following code example retrieves a single document from the ``movies``
collection. It uses the following arguments for the ``FindOne()`` method:

- An empty **Context** instance returned from the ``context.TODO()`` function.
- A **filter document** that only matches movies with the title exactly matching
  the text ``"The Room"``.
- **Options** that specify a **sort** of matched documents in
  descending order by rating, such that the first document has the highest
  rating. The options also specify a **projection** for the results so
  that the MongoDB instance only sends the ``title`` and ``imdb`` fields of
  the retrieved document.

.. include:: /includes/connect-guide-note.rst

.. literalinclude:: findOne.go
   :language: go

If you run the example above, you should see a result that looks like this:

.. literalinclude:: findOne-output.txt
   :language: none

.. include:: /includes/sample-data-note.rst

For more information on the methods, interfaces, structs, and functions
mentioned on this page, see the following API documentation:

> - :go-api:`*Collection.FindOne() <mongo#Collection.FindOne>`

Reviewer: Is the prefix asterisk a standard way of referring to Go methods with a pointer receiver? It does look a bit odd to me, but I may not have full context.

As evidence to the contrary, I see a few [examples within the Go driver docs](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/blob/b47cf2ee6403a34cec04aebe5bdf82dfab2bba74/mongo/index_view.go#L40:L40) without the asterisk when referring to a type's method.

cc @iwysiu in case you know off-hand.

Author: Thanks for the note. We were trying to come up with a convention as a team but we were not sure what was best. In the [Donavon and Kernighan Go Book](https://www.gopl.io/) they use `(*<reciever name>).method()` name on page 158, 164, and 167. We had a discussion about this and felt it was somewhat hard to read, and we had trouble finding this notation used elsewhere, so we decided to try the `*<method name>.method()` as it is somewhat similar to the way it is discussed [in a tour of go](https://tour.golang.org/methods/4) and seemed easier to read.

I think recently we have been leaning more towards dropping the `*` altogether, as it seems like in Go most people do not distinguish between pointer receiver methods and value receiver methods in prose.

We are not at all attached to this notation and are totally open to any suggestions. If you Kevin or Isabella have a preference either way we would appreciate hearing your thoughts.

Author: Thanks for sharing your thoughts and for hunting down such a relevant example. After having a brief conversation around this thread in the DevEd DBX Slack Channel, we have decided to remove the `*` in links to pointer receiver methods. 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/2891c941765fccfbf603259edf55d0ef38d26e64

Going forward, we plan to not have a `*` when linking to the API docs for pointer receiver methods. @iwysiu, please feel free to let us at the DevEd DBX team know if you disagree with this stance and would like us to structure these links differently.

> - `Context <https://pkg.go.dev/context#Context/>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Context <https://pkg.go.dev/context#Context>`__
```

Similar note as below, I think the slash interferes.

Author: Thanks for the note. Again great catch! 

Apologies for letting this slip through, I will make sure to double check links with URI fragments going forward.

- :go-api:`FindOneOptions <mongo/options#FindOneOptions>`
- :go-api:`*FindOneOptions.SetProjection() <mongo/options#FindOneOptions.SetProjection>`
- :go-api:`options.FindOne() <mongo/options#FindOne>`
- :go-api:`SingleResult <mongo#SingleResult>`
- :go-api:`*SingleResult.Decode() <mongo#SingleResult.Decode>`

> - `context.TODO() <https://pkg.go.dev/context#TODO/>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `context.TODO() <https://pkg.go.dev/context#TODO>`__
```

In my browser (Chrome 90 on macOS), I think the trailing slash interferes with the link, and does not scroll to the TODO method.

Author: Thanks for the note. Good catch! It seems to interfere on my browser as well (also Chrome 90 and macOS). Committing your suggested change.

===============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can retrieve a single document from your collection with the

> ``collection.findOne()`` method. 

Author: You are correct. Thank you for pointing this out. Here is the fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/820bd993ab7771520ecb23368c35ae1f7dee7152

Going forward, I will try to be more careful with correctly capitalizing golang types.

> ``collection.findOne()`` method. 

Author: Thanks for the note. After rereading, I agree that it makes sense to immediately describe the functionality of the method in a usage example rather than starting from the signature. This is addressed in: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/70cacf45b53ca05072ac20cec62b90df79be7642

The ``findOne()`` method takes a **context**, a **filter**, and a

> pointer to a configuration object as arguments.

Author: Thanks for the note, and for meeting about the MORE presentation pattern. The task of writing up the MORE pattern is captured [in this JIRA ticket](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-15523). 

I have replaced this sentence with a paragraph that introduces method parameters gradually as described above. 

I will try and avoid mixing up API placeholder values (parameter variable names? Honestly not sure of the correct term now that I am trying to say it) with types. Wasn't sure what to say here as the `interface{}` type didn't give useful information about what the parameter was supposed to do. I think doing the MORE pattern for the introduction circumvents this issue and avoids an explicit discussion of the method signature which is good for this page.

A context is a value of type ``context.Context``. Contexts are useful in
concurrent server programming. A discussion of the context pattern and the
``context`` package is outside the scope of this page, but if you are interested
you can find more information

> `in this article on The Go Blog <https://blog.golang.org/context>`__.

Author: I think it might be worth making a page for this, as a large portion of the go driver codebase seems to interact with ``context.Context`` values. I have [made a ticket](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-15527) for the Context page, added a place holder for the context page in the fundamentals section, and moved the section such that it is described last in the description of the `findOne()` method parameters. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/70cacf45b53ca05072ac20cec62b90df79be7642

Your ``filter`` argument is your query to MongoDB. The ``filter`` parameter takes a query
document that specifies the subset of your collection that you would like to
retrieve. If you provide an empty document as your ``filter`` argument, MongoDB
returns all the documents in your collection. The ``filter`` parameter has an empty
interface type, but the value you pass as your ``filter`` argument must specify
a document. For more information on documents in the MongoDB Go driver, see our

> :doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

Author: Thanks for the note. 

I did [some research](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1788923/parameter-vs-argument) on the terms, and I heard it described as "functions have parameters and take arguments". So the definitions of the terms I was using were:

Argument: The value passed to a function/method.
Parameter: A value used in a function/method defined in its signature. 

I agree it is confusing, and have removed the terms from the page. Shifting the discussion away from the `findOne()` method's signature made these terms easy to remove.

I think the plan does not currently match what is in the docs-golang repo. The docs-golang repo has a [data-formats.txt page ](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/blob/master/source/fundamentals/data-formats.txt) which I think corresponds to the "BSON <-> Structs" page in the plan. @terakilobyte does this sound correct to you?

> :doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

Reviewer 2: I think "filter argument" is incorrect because "argument" is the actual _value_ according to the SO page you linked, e.g. `{"name": "Alek"}`. If you wanted to use the word "filter", you could call it "argument for the filter parameter", but that is more wordy than necessary in this situation.

In general, let's avoid using SO as a definitive source of information on terminology we use and otherwise. In this case, I agree with their explanation and usage of the terms, but there is plenty of opinionated info and misinformation (sometimes because it's outdated) on that site. For drivers documentation, let's use our conventions as the first choice and then authoritative language documentation sites as secondary sources.

> :doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

Author: Thanks for the note. Will not reference SO pages going forward, and will instead reference MongoDB terminology conventions as first choice and if no convention exists use trusted docs as second choice.

> Your configuration object is used to specify any additional configuration

Author: I have removed the notion of a "configuration object" from the page. I now introduce `FindOneOptions` more quickly in the options section of the page.

Thanks for pointing out this passive voice instance. Need to automate these checks and improve my ear for them.

options for your ``findOne()`` method call. A full list of supported options
can be found in 

> :go-api:`the API documentation for the FindOneOptions type </mongo/options#FindOneOptions>`. 

Author: Thanks for the note. I have removed this chunk of text.

I will continue to better train my ear for passive voice.

> :go-api:`the API documentation for the FindOneOptions type </mongo/options#FindOneOptions>`. 

Author: Thanks for the note. I thought in this case it would be helpful to readers as the `FindOneOptions` API docs are the best way to see how it can be used (complete list of options).

I removed the link and I agree it makes the page more readable. It is now only at the end.

In the following example, we specify a **sort** and a **projection** using a

> value of type ``*FindOneOptions``.  

Author: I rewrote the `FindOneOptions` section such that sort and projection are defined. 

Going forward, I will try and and appropriately define introduced terms, and get a better sense of when terms need to be explicitly defined.

Example
-------

> The following code examples finds a single document from the ``movies``

Author: Thanks for the note. Going forward, I will be careful to not create circular definitions by using defining a term with the name of the term. Thank you for introducing this problem, this has not been on my radar but it definitely should be. I'm not sure this is Driver's specific, but it is a useful thing to keep in mind and have in writing, so I have added this to the [Writing Hints and Tips Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SxlDvx4MYKBE6-LYGp5i5uuHfY1ZUYYlhc6syEdta5M/edit) as point 22. 

Committing suggested change.

> collection. It uses the following functions, methods, and values:

Author: Thanks for the note. I believe `[context.TODO()](https://pkg.go.dev/context#TODO)` is a function (unless I am incorrectly reading the godoc, which is definitely a possibility). I now say,

> An empty **context** returned from the ``context.TODO()`` function.

I am changing the qualifier list to just

> It uses the following functions and methods:

The code example interacts with a `FindOneOptions` object through the `options.FindOne()` function ad the methods of the `FindOneOptions` struct, so I think functions and methods is an exhaustive list.

- A **query filter** value that is passed to the ``findOne()`` method. The filter
  matches only movies with the title exactly matching the text ``'The Room'``.

> - A **configuration** that **sorts** matched documents in descending order by

Author: Thanks for the note. You have mentioned my incorrectly describing who performs what actions in driver-server communications, I apologize for making this mistake multiple times.

Going forward, I will try to be careful in talking about who is performing what actions in MongoDB driver-server interactions. Be careful about what the driver specifies vs. what the driver does.

  rating, such that the returned document has the highest rating. Our
  configuration also **projects** our results so that only the ``title`` and
  ``imdb`` fields are retrieved.

> - An empty **context** returned from the ``context.TODO()`` function.

Reviewer 2: I think this section could be confusing to the user due to how it presents information about various parts of the example and the data on which it operates. Perhaps it could be presented more clearly in one or more of the following ways:
- provide info sequentially so the reader can follow along in the example
- describe the code without trying to identify and define the terms
- limit the description to only the most important points

===============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can retrieve a single document from your collection with the

> ``*Collection.findOne()`` method. 

Reviewer 2: Not sure you meant to do this, but let's not use "*" to prefix a method name. Also, as noted in a prior comment, the "f" needs to be capitalized. That is the golang convention for calling (public) methods in a package. Could you make sure you address all instances as requested inthe prior comment: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2#discussion_r608760490

Author: Thanks for the note. I apologize for misunderstanding your previous message. I incorrectly read it as "oh no my exported type is not capitalized!" rather than "oh no my exported type and exported method are not capitalized!" I will try and not make this mistake in the future.

I have removed the pointer prefix for the `FindOne()` method. Is it safe to say that going forward when discussing go methods, we will not distinguish between pointer receivers and struct receivers when discussing go methods?

When discussing the pointer receiver methods such as [`FindOne`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/mongo#Collection.FindOne), we should refer to them as `Collections.FindOne()` rather than `*Collections.FindOne()`?

For function/method signatures, should we distinguish between recieving a pointer type and a non-pointer type? So in the case of a method receiving a pointer to ``SingleResult`` variable, should we say the method takes a. ``*SingleResult`` or a ``SingleResult``?

Just trying to nail down how we plan to talk about pointers in the go docs.

Fix:

..
   method

The ``findOne()`` method takes a query document that specifies the
subset of your collection that you would like to retrieve. If you
pass the ``findOne()`` method an empty document, MongoDB will retrieve your
entire collection. For more information on documents in the MongoDB Go driver,
see our :doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

You must pass the ``findOne()`` method a ``context.Context`` interface type
value. For more information on the ``context.Context`` interface and the
``context`` package, see our :doc:`guide on context </fundamentals/context>`.

..
   options

You can specify additional options for your ``findOne()`` method call by passing

> the ``findOne()`` method a ``*FindOneOptions`` value. For example, your

Author: Thank you for the note. I agree it makes sense to lead off with an introduction to the use case of the feature rather than the implementation details of the feature. Leading with implementation details is a pattern I have struggled with, and I will try to correct it. Apologies. I have reordered the information in the paragraph such that it leads with the use case.

I have rephrased the sentence to avoid saying `FindOne()` twice.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/dc0fe9b085af68be2d0e55c7c5edaf762c099486

``FindOneOptions`` value can specify a projection for your results, which

> configures the fields in the returned documents. Your ``FindOneOptions`` value

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree "returned documents" is not helpful here. I also added a clarifying clause saying why a sort is helpful to answer the question, "why would I need to sort only one document?". 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/6bbb67a08a0af007038a14576fe1f569d8e25396

Going forward, I will try and better sense the ways my writing diverges from what a reader expects to learn from a page. I.E., "I'm here to find one document, not multiple documents, why is this page talking about multiple documents?"

can also specify a **sort**, which orders your results. 

..
   return + error

> The ``findOne()`` method returns a value of type ``SingleResult``. The

Author: Thank you for the note. I can see how starting the function at a high level is more useful for readers.  I have read docs where it just immediately goes into a discussion of types, and it is very difficult to work through. I will try and keep that in mind as I write.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/41e1356f89c0db6b0e39f3bd25c7327cc4ce5f4f

Going forward, I will try and start the conversation at the appropriate level of technical detail to ease readers into an idea.

``SingleResult`` type represents a single document returned from a query to a

> MongoDB instance. You can call the ``*SingleResult.Decode()`` method

Author: Thank you for the note. Point 1 I believe is addressed here

to unmarshall a ``SingleResult`` value into a variable with a type that can
represent a document. If there was an error retrieving your document, that error
will be returned by the ``Decode()`` method. If no documents matched your
query, ``Decode()`` will return an ``ErrNoDocuments`` error. 

Example
-------

The following code example retrieves a single document from the ``movies``

> collection. It uses the following functions and methods:

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree that the term "arguments" here is more appropriate, as the bulleted items represent arguments to the `FindOne()` method.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/d5a9ec3b9e1f46e51a340a9f1b8797edb39f7dc9

> - An empty **context** returned from the ``context.TODO()`` function.

Author: Thanks for the note. I have capitalized context and appended the word "instance". As you can't have two types of text formatting on a chunk of text, I decided to make the text bold rather monospace as I think it better aligns with the other two bullet points if the text is bold. Let me know if you disagree.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/8a559166885f2cc5c009a3ca7c6b711d374280f6 and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/e8cfc46332cea0d1bd5b495589bce8879406ed91

- A **configuration** that specifies a **sort** on matched documents in
  descending order by rating, such that the returned document has the highest
  rating. Our configuration also specifies a **projection** for our results so

>   that only the ``title`` and ``imdb`` fields are retrieved.

Author: Thanks for the note, apologies for not noticing this instance of passive voice.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/1f39b39f407d2fe49653ff3db10569b612d05c39

> - A **query document** that is passed to the ``FindOne()`` method. The query

Author: Thanks for the note. I have reframed the list with "arguments to the `FindOne()` method as the organizing principle. I  have removed the reference to the `FindOne()` method in the query document item as it now is covered by the introduction. I have reorganized the list such that it reflects the order of arguments in the `FindOne()` method.

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/d5a9ec3b9e1f46e51a340a9f1b8797edb39f7dc9 & https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/f0ac2c93655a83b7e1c6fa009de7b05ce880d5cd

Thank you for the note. I like this organization. I will try and improve my sense of what is the most straightforward organizing principle for a section.  I think I was too focused on following the structure of previous  "Find a Document" pages.

>   only matches movies with the title exactly matching the text ``'The Room'``.

Author: Sorry, this is not a standard that I am proposing. I did this because the equivalent "The Room" uses single quotes in both the [Node Docs](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-node/blob/0f80a7850bb34085818e8c1458dd7f1849e46e1c/source/usage-examples/findOne.txt#L39) and the [Java Docs](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/blob/b4828b8b01ef02794e38bbe478c19eaa1cc70cb2/source/usage-examples/findOne.txt#L40). Would you like these changed as well?

FIx for go docs:  https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/5e983a731739ebdc9dd2c083cdf8464f04f10a91

>   only matches movies with the title exactly matching the text ``'The Room'``.

Reviewer 2: Feel free to use whatever and we can discuss as a team. I'll refrain from making any comments about identifying fields and values for now.

===============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can retrieve a single document from your collection with the
``*Collection.FindOne()`` method. 

..
   method

The ``FindOne()`` method takes a query document that specifies the
subset of your collection that you would like to retrieve a document from. If you
pass the ``FindOne()`` method an empty document, MongoDB will consider your
entire collection when retrieving your document. For more information on documents
in the MongoDB Go driver, see our
:doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

You must pass the ``FindOne()`` method a ``context.Context`` interface type
value. For more information on the ``context.Context`` interface and the
``context`` package, see our :doc:`guide on context </fundamentals/context>`.

..
   options

You can specify additional options when retrieving a document such as whether to
**sort** the matches of your query, which retrieves the matching document

> with the minimum or maximum value as specified in your sort criteria. You can

Author: Thank you for the note. After rewriting the sentence, I agree it is much clearer. Fix:

Going forward, I will try and avoid verb forms of terminology in explanations. I will try and use the noun form of terminology the first time a potentially new term is mentioned on a page. I am adding "avoid verb forms of terminology" to the Drivers Writing Hints and Tricks Doc as point 24.

> also specify a **projection**, which configures the fields in the returned

Author: Thank you for the note. I agree "configures the fields" is unclear. I have rewritten the sentence to use the language from the server manual, "specifies or restricts". 

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/8c895c254c894f395632aa70a888416bb51e7f61

document. You can specify additional options by passing the ``FindOne()`` method

> a pointer to an instance of a ``FindOneOptions`` value. You can configure a

Author: Thank you for the note. I agree this language should be changed. I have changed this to "a pointer to a ``FindOneOptions`` value".  Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/e90de8297e855f604e0a03c1be61861043e99e96

"instance of a value" does not make sense, as values are information in memory separate from the go type system.

> ``FindOneOptions`` value by using setter methods such as the

Author: Thanks for the note. I did some research in the [Donovan and Kernighan Book](https://www.gopl.io/) and Chapter 4 (types chapter which has a section on structs) seems to avoid referring to structs as objects. The methods chapter, chapter 6, is a little more loose with using the term "object", but the chapter seems to lean towards the language "methods of a type" rather than "methods of an object." A tour of go also seems to avoid the use of the term "object", both when discussing [pointers to structs](https://tour.golang.org/moretypes/4) and when discussing [methods](https://tour.golang.org/methods/1). Based off of this research I think we should avoid the term "object" in go documentation, and instead opt for "struct" or "interface type". 

That being said, I agree "value" is the incorrect term here. I am changing it to "a ``FindOneOptions`` struct". Fix: 

In regards to the term "setter", here is an excerpt from the Donovan and Kernighan book:

> Functions that merely access or modify internal values of a type, such as the methods of the Logger type from log package, below, are called getters and setters. However, when naming a getter met ho d, we usually omit t he Get prefix. This preference for brevity extends to al l methods, not just field accessors, and to other redundant prefixes as well, such as Fetch, Find, and Lookup.

``*FindOneOptions.SetProjection()`` method.

..
   return

If the query filter you specified in your ``FindOne()`` method call matches one
or more documents in the collection, it returns the first matched result. The
return type ``SingleResult`` represents a single document returned from a query
to a MongoDB instance. You can call the ``*SingleResult.Decode()`` method
to unmarshall a ``SingleResult`` value into a variable. Pass the ``Decode()`` 
method a pointer to the variable that you would like to contain your returned
document. 

..
   error 

> The ``Decode()`` method will return the error value of your ``FindOne()`` method

Author: Thanks for the note. I like this strategy for talking about error return values. I was worried about the harsh transition, and I agree reiterating the purpose of the method helps make it less jarring. 

I like your suggested change, however in line with https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2#discussion_r615493820 I am not sure if we should use the term "object" in the go docs, instead opting for "struct" or "interface type". 

Thank you for pointing out this use of future tense as well. On my last pass at the page I thought future tense was appropriate here (uncertain of which error would be returned), but after rewriting I see that present tense is more appropriate here. Thank you for pointing that out.

Fix:

Going forward, I will try to better identify sentences that do not have a smooth transition, and work to make these transitions less jarring for readers.

call. 

- If a document matched your query, and there are no errors retrieving the
  document, the ``Decode()`` method will return ``nil``. 
- If no documents matched your query, the ``Decode()`` method will return an
  ``ErrNoDocuments`` error. 
- If there was an error retrieving your document, the ``Decode()`` method will

>   return the error. 

Author: Thank you for the note. I agree this improves scan-ability. I have added an entry for this in the [writing hints and tips document as point 25  ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SxlDvx4MYKBE6-LYGp5i5uuHfY1ZUYYlhc6syEdta5M/edit). Fix: 

Going forward, I will try and be more mindful of how readers will scan my writing.

Example
-------

> The following code example retrieves a single document from the ``movies``

Author: Thanks for the note. I have included the sample data language from the [Node Usage Example Page](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-node/blob/master/source/usage-examples.txt#L37-L43) as a note. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/c6724670984db5cd217481329861a2cf795a84c3

collection. It uses the following arguments for the ``FindOne()`` method:

- An empty **Context** instance returned from the ``context.TODO()`` function.
- A **query document** that only matches movies with the title exactly matching
  the text ``"The Room"``.
- A **configuration** that specifies a **sort** on matched documents in

>   descending order by rating, such that the retrieved document has the highest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  descending order by rating, such that the first document has the highest
```

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree "first" is a better word here. Committing suggested change.

>   rating. Our configuration also specifies a **projection** for our results so

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: slightly sudden transition to possessive form. Prior to this, I see non-possessive form used (e.g. "the example", "the function", etc.), but here I see "our configuration", "our results", "our MongoDB instance", and "our retrieved document".

Author: Thanks for the note. I rewrote this without using the possessive form and I agree it is easier to understand. Fix: 

Going forward, I will try to be consistent with possessive and non-possessive forms within and between list entries.

  that our MongoDB instance only sends the ``title`` and ``imdb`` fields of
  our retrieved document.

.. include:: /includes/connect-guide-note.rst

.. literalinclude:: findOne.go
   :language: go

If you run the example above, you should see a result that looks like this:

.. literalinclude:: findOne.go.txt
   :language: none

For more information on the methods, interfaces, structs, and functions
mentioned on this page, see the following API documentation:

> - :go-api:`*Collection.FindOne() </mongo#Collection.FindOne>`

Reviewer 2: Is this directive in the process of getting updated in snooty-parser? The expanded links are currently in this format:
`https://godoc.org/github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver//mongo#Collection.FindOne`

In future PRs, could you provide a heads-up to the reviewer if there's something that's known to be broken and what is planned for the fix?

Author: Thanks for the note. I will update the links such that they are correctly formed relative to the current snooty-parser implementation of the `go-api` directive. Fix:

- `Context <https://pkg.go.dev/context#Context>`__
- :go-api:`FindOneOptions </mongo/options#FindOneOptions>`
- :go-api:`*FindOneOptions.SetProjection() </mongo/options#FindOneOptions.SetProjection>`

> - :go-api:`options.FindOne() </mongo/options#FindOne>`

Reviewer 2: What's different between FindOne and FindOneOptions that made you include the package name? If it's to differentiate the namespace from Collection.FindOne(), maybe you could consistently include the package name? Or is there some other criteria?

Author: The criteria in the list that I tried to follow were:

structs: do not include package name
methods: include struct name
functions: include package name

I am in no way attached to these criteria. My thinking was, "there is not a convention in the docs for go package names, and I can't find a convention elsewhere, so I should take a stab at making one and it will be discussed in the review phase". I am now realizing I should have brought this up explicitly, possibly as a note in the initial PR. I apologies for not drawing your attention to this immediately. Going forward, I will try to do a better job of identifying these potential far reaching decisions and brining them up for discussion.

[`FindOneOptions`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/mongo/options#FindOneOptions) is a struct type where as [`options.FindOne()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/mongo/options#FindOne) is a function. I am not sure of the best convention for including package/struct names. Here are some options:

1. Include the entire package and or struct path for everything
2. Include the package path for functions and structs, and include the struct path for methods
3. Criteria listed above

After writing out this comment, I think I support option 1. What is your preference?

- :go-api:`SingleResult </mongo#SingleResult>`
- :go-api:`*SingleResult.Decode() </mongo#SingleResult.Decode>`

> - `context.TODO() <https://pkg.go.dev/context#TODO>`__

Reviewer 2: Since you've already included the link to the Context package, I wonder if just one of these links is sufficient.

Author: Thank you for the note. I agree it is a little bit awkward to have both links, but I am not sure it is redundant as before I am linking to the `Context` interface type and later I am linking to the `TODO()` function in the `context` package. I like linking to both, but I could see removing the `context.TODO()` function from the list as also being find.

I'd prefer to leave it in, but if you feel strongly about taking it out let me know and I will remove it.

===============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can retrieve a single document from your collection with the
``*Collection.FindOne()`` method. 

..
   method

> The ``FindOne()`` method takes a query document that specifies the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``FindOne()`` method takes a filter document that specifies the
```

This is more consistent with terminology in the [CRUD spec](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/crud/crud.rst#read) and the [driver documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo#Collection.FindOne).

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree that filter is more consistent with the Go driver documentation. Is it safe to say that going forward, you prefer the terms "filter document" and "filter", over "query document" and "query" when discussing MongoDB queries/filters in the context of the go driver?

Committing suggested change.

> subset of your collection that you would like to retrieve a document from. If you

Reviewer: The description of of the query document specifying a subset seems a little off. Maybe something like "specifies a filter that will be applied to the collection. Only documents that match the filter will be returned by the server. For example, if the filter document is {x: 1}, the document {x: 1, y: 1} would match but {x: 2, y: 1} would not".

Author: Thanks for the note. After implementing https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2#discussion_r617956487 the edit "specifies a filter" creates some circular circular language (takes a filter document that specifies a filter). I have tried to rewrite the section inline with your edit, but changing it to fit within your other suggestions. Please let me know if this captures your meaning: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/91b48490f95a3a520f1aacf8e0c3ee957e982f8b

While I agree that specifying sample documents inline may be helpful for some readers, I believe our usage example documentation generally favors directing readers to the end of page example over providing examples in the introductory section.

Author: Apologies for not following up in this thread sooner. I have restarted the thread on the DevEd team asking about inline sample documents in usage example prose (thread did not reach resolution). Will try and follow up here with the results of that conversation.

pass the ``FindOne()`` method an empty document, MongoDB will consider your
entire collection when retrieving your document. For more information on documents
in the MongoDB Go driver, see our
:doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

You must pass the ``FindOne()`` method a ``context.Context`` interface type
value. For more information on the ``context.Context`` interface and the
``context`` package, see our :doc:`guide on context </fundamentals/context>`.

..
   options

You can specify options that modify the behavior of your ``FindOne()`` method.

> One example of an option is **sort**, which orders the subset of your collection

Reviewer: Based on this wording, does not seem clear whether the server or driver is doing the sorting. Here is one suggestion:

```suggestion
One example of an option is **sort**, which applies an order to the matching documents
```

Maybe there should also be examples of sort documents here? Or if possible, link to other documentation describing what are valid sort documents.

Author: Thanks for note. I have changed the wording of this section to be more explicit that your MongoDB instance is performing the sort operation. I have added links to the sort and projections guide at the end of the paragraph. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/0f91e0182facc6e7ed14d46bd00c757cc40768f6

that matches your query before the first document is retrieved. Another example
of an option is a **projection**, which specifies or restricts the fields in
your returned document. You can specify additional options by passing the
``FindOne()`` method a pointer to a ``FindOneOptions`` struct. You
can configure a ``FindOneOptions`` struct by using setter methods such as the
``*FindOneOptions.SetProjection()`` method.

..

>    return

Reviewer: This only focuses on the `Decode` method of `SingleResult`. It may be good to mention `DecodeBytes` and `Err` as well. It may also be useful to put the SingleResult docs in a common location as it's returned from a multiple functions.

Author: Thanks for the note. I believe we generally do not propose multiple solutions to problems in out "Usage Example" documentation. We generally wait to propose alternative solutions and provide in depth background for driver features until out "Fundamentals" sections. 

I am not sure what you mean by "SingleResult" docs in a common location. Do you mean within this page, or within the entirety of the Go Driver documentation?

I have directed the DevEd team to this comment to ask if deferring this edit until writing Fundamentals sections is appropriate. I'll follow up in this thread with their response.

Author: Thanks for following up Kevin. Yes, this section is not meant to fully describe `SingleResult`. [Usage Examples](https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/node/current/usage-examples/) are intended to provide "convenient starting points" where as Fundamentals provide information on "core concepts".

Apologies for not following up in this thread sooner. While we try to consistently structure our docs, we also try to be flexible and make compromises or amend structure when it could benefit learners. So, while generally we provide one convenient solution to a problem in a usage example (intended as a How-To for common use cases), we are always open to suggestions.

If you are interested in learning more about the structure of Driver's documentation, [this presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YRBdZ3cEWj6UX23dH91OkRL5BY2j68Zzw_0fyAr5NLI/edit#slide=id.g8d9441a72b_1_999) contains a lot of helpful information on the background of the project and reasoning behind organization.

Reviewer: That sounds good, and thank you for the additional context!

If the query filter you specified in your ``FindOne()`` method call matches one
or more documents in the collection, it returns the first matched result. The
return type ``SingleResult`` represents a single document returned from a query
to a MongoDB instance. You can call the ``*SingleResult.Decode()`` method

> to unmarshall a ``SingleResult`` value into a variable. Pass the ``Decode()`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to unmarshal a ``SingleResult`` value into a variable. Pass the ``Decode()`` 
```

Author: Thanks for the note. Going forward, I will try to remember that "[Marshal](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/json/#Marshal)" is spelled with one "L" in the go ecosystem. 

Committing suggested change.

method a pointer to the variable that you would like to contain your returned
document. 

..
   error 

> When you call the ``Decode()`` method to unmarshall your result, the method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you call the ``Decode()`` method to unmarshal your result, the method
```

Author: Linking to previous comment: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2#discussion_r619289300

returns an ``error`` interface type which can contain one of the following
values: 

- ``nil`` if a document matched your query, and there were no errors retrieving
  the document. 
- ``ErrNoDocuments`` if no documents matched your query. 
- If there was an error retrieving your document, the ``Decode()`` method

>   returns the error. 

Reviewer: In terms of error handling, it may be worth mentioning how errors from the initial operation (e.g. find) will be propagated through methods like `Decode`. In other words, if the find itself fails, we'll return a `SingleResult`, but the `Decode` call will return that error without doing anything else. This allows for fluent API calls like `coll.FindOne(...).Decode()` without having to do an additional error check between the `FindOne` and `Decode` calls.

Author: Thanks for the note. I have rewritten this list item to explicitly state that errors from the ``FindOne()`` method call are propagated to ``Decode()`` and ``Decode()`` returns the error. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/0f91e0182facc6e7ed14d46bd00c757cc40768f6

Example
-------

The following code example retrieves a single document from the ``movies``
collection. It uses the following arguments for the ``FindOne()`` method:

- An empty **Context** instance returned from the ``context.TODO()`` function.

> - A **query document** that only matches movies with the title exactly matching

Reviewer: Same comment about replacing `query` with `filter`.

Author: Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/705819b76dcbd6dbf7c253a6d4a1793181926a6a

  the text ``"The Room"``.

> - A **configuration** that specifies a **sort** of matched documents in

Reviewer: If `configuration` refers to the `options.FindOne` struct, I'd suggest a slight rewording:

```suggestion
- Options that specify a **sort** of matched documents in
```

Author: Thanks for the note. I agree options is a more fitting term here. Good catch. Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/8f09609bf9c5cd1d2b7ea394696cc3ec9929c38d

method retrieves a document from your MongoDB instance that matches your
filter document. If you pass the ``FindOne()`` method an empty filter document,
MongoDB considers your entire collection when retrieving your document. For more
information on documents in the MongoDB Go driver, see our
:doc:`guide on data formats </fundamentals/data-formats>`.

You must pass the ``FindOne()`` method a ``context.Context`` interface type
value. For more information on the ``context.Context`` interface and the
``context`` package, see our :doc:`guide on context </fundamentals/context>`.

..
   options

You can specify options that change the behavior of the ``FindOne()`` method.
One example of an option is **sort**, which instructs your MongoDB instance to
order the matching documents of your collection before it retrieves the
first document. Another example of an option is a **projection**, which
specifies or restricts the fields in your returned document. You can specify
options by passing the ``FindOne()`` method a pointer to a ``FindOneOptions`` struct.  
You can configure a ``FindOneOptions`` struct by using setter methods such as the

> ``FindOneOptions.SetProjection()`` method. For more information on the sort operation,

Reviewer 3: nit: should this be sort operation or sort option? (same for projection) I'm not sure what the docs convention is.

Author: Thanks for the note. As the linked page will discuss sort generally in the context of the Go driver (similarly [to this page](https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/d7956eb/java/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-9572-Logging/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/) for the Java driver docs), I think either term is appropriate.

After rereading the paragraph, I can see how "sort option" may be clearer for readers as sorting was discussed earlier in the context of options.

Edit:

:doc:`see our guide on sorting </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort/>`.
For more information on the projection operation, 
:doc:`see our guide on projections </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/project/>`.  

..
   return

If the query filter you specified in your ``FindOne()`` method call matches one
or more documents in your collection, it returns the first matched result. The
return type ``SingleResult`` represents a single document returned from a query
to a MongoDB instance. You can call the ``SingleResult.Decode()`` method
to unmarshal a ``SingleResult`` struct type into a variable. Pass the ``Decode()`` 
method a pointer to the variable that you would like to contain your returned
document. 

..
   error 

When you call the ``Decode()`` method to unmarshal your result, the method
returns an ``error`` interface type which can contain one of the following
values: 

- ``nil`` if a document matched your query, and there were no errors retrieving
  the document. 
- ``ErrNoDocuments`` if no documents matched your query. 

> - If there was an error retrieving your document during execution of the

Reviewer 3: It will also return an error if there was an error unmarshalling your result

Author: Thanks for the note. To confirm, Is the correct error `[InvalidUnmarshalError](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/blob/55b507b3e45a2ef5dc1d5a4cba3333c45dce443c/bson/unmarshal.go#L35)`?

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/9a28730a683d23a022fb3d832ad9f7e3ed6892e3

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't specify the error or that it's a bson.D, because Decode takes non-bson.D values too and those can have different errors. Maybe something like this at the end of the list:
`if the document was successfully retrieved, but unmarshaling failed, Decode() will return the unmarshaling error`

Author: Thanks for the note. I have taken your suggested edit and tweaked it to fit in line with our [style guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/style-guide/).

Fix: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/pull/2/commits/bf417a7b18cbb5c9aa7f78508a519c1123cc8897

For my own edification, is there a reason why you did not want a specific error mentioned? Are there a few possible errors that could occur during unmarshaling?

Reviewer 3: Looks good! Yeah, depending on few different factors (like what you pass in, and what registry you're unmarshalling with) the errors can be different.

.. default-domain:: mongodb

You can retrieve a single document from your collection with the
``Collection.FindOne()`` method. 

..
   method

The ``FindOne()`` method takes a filter document. Calling the ``FindOne()``

> method retrieves a document from your MongoDB instance that matches your

Reviewer: Curious, is "MongoDB instance" docs the standard way to describe a cluster / deployment of MongoDB servers?

Author: Interestingly, there is some variance in the terminology used for a MongoDB cluster/instance/deployment across all of our documentation. You will see all of the following throughout Drivers/Server documentation:

- MongoDB deployment ([link](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/))
- MongoDB instance ([link](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/mongo/))
- MongoDB ([staging link that may not work in a few weeks](https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/d7956eb/java/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-9572-Logging/fundamentals/enterprise-auth/))
- MongoDB Cluster ([staging link](https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/d7956eb/java/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-9572-Logging/quick-start/))
